# Vision Statement

The recipe book will be used to store and share various recipes to make cooking effortless. The system will be like a virtual cookbook including multiple recipes from different people with additional abilities like sharing their own recipes, rating the recipes etc. This will be a platform for all who are interested in cooking and want to learn more about it as well share their recipes with the world.

The system will contain multiple original recipes curated by the creators of the application along with the ability for users to add and share the recipes with fellow users. It will be possible to search recipes according to cuisines, categories, authors or relevant keywords. The system will allow users to save, rate and review the recipes. The system will also be helpful in making a list of all the ingredients needed on a daily/weekly basis as per the user requirement. This will help the users plan their meals accordingly. Users will be able to use the system as their own customized cookbook as well as share their love for cooking with other people.

This system will mainly provide for young adults as well as anyone looking for new recipes. They will have access to numerous easy and quick recipes, which are also cost effective and will cater to their busy lifestyle. These recipes will save both money and time as it will provide the exact ingredients needed, so the users can grocery shop mindfully as well as meal prep if they choose to do so. This system can also help people looking for new recipes for their leisure time or those who are simply looking to expand their cooking skills. Additionally, this system could be useful to those who are new to cooking and are looking for simple recipes to start with. With the collection of easy and quick recipes, this system will be useful to all.

One of the important benefits of this system is it will help users to have or maintain their healthy eating habits. According to a survey, people spend a lot of money on junk food because they don’t have time to cook. But this system will give access to a variety of quick recipes with the grocery lists, which will not only help users to live a healthy life but also save time. Moreover, while using the system users will only buy food supplies listed on grocery lists which will also help to protect the environment by minimizing the food wastage and users will save money . 

This system will be considered successful based on two criteria. First, if users find the system easy to use, helpful and are able to use the recipes provided. Second, if surveys reveal that people use the system regularly and enjoy the recipes provided. Additionally, it would also be a success if the users can improve the recipes on the system from the feedback feature.